# Axiom Lexicon
Language is important. This is a list of terms you will encounter throughout the core rules. We hope it helps to clarify our intent as you explore the rules.

**Archetype** - Traditionally referred to as Class. This establishes a character’s professional path and their general role in a group.

**Attack** - This Combat Action is the same whether using a weapon or Magic. Roll your Dice Pool to attack a target. Damage is equal to the number of dice in your Dice Pool.

**Attributes** - Unique characteristics often granted by Heritage, Lineage or Archetype. Examples include flight, dark-vision, phobias, natural weapons, animal speech, shape shifting, etc.

**Challenge Rating** - A number that acts as a threshold for succeeding at a task. This number is determined by the Game Master and can apply to individuals, groups, a task or a scene in general. Roll your Dice Pool to meet or exceed the Challenge Rating to succeed.

**Challenge Rating Penalty** or “**Penalty**” - A _Modifier_ that increases the Challenge Rating of a particular task.

**Combat Scene** or "**Scene**" - Once initiative is rolled, a Combat Scene begins and continues until combat has concluded.

**Dice Pool** - The total number of dice you roll. Typically connected to training in a Talent. Occasionally modified by conditions or other circumstances. The maximum Dice Pool is 3d6.

**Dice Pool Bonus** or “**Bonus**” - A _Modifier_ that adds to the total resulting from a Dice Pool roll.

**Exploding Die** - One die in every roll that, when it rolls a 6, is re-rolled until it doesn’t roll a 6. All resulting numbers are included in the Dice Pool total to determine success.

**Health** - The amount of damage a character or NPC can take before falling unconscious or dying.

**Heritage** - Heritage is a general grouping of culture and ancestry for sentient beings. Heritage determines a character’s base Health.

**Initiative** - This is the order of combat actions determined by players each rolling 1d6. Characters that roll five or better take their Turn at the Top of the Initiative, before their opponents. All other characters take their action at the Bottom of the Initiative, after their opponents.

**Lineage** - Lineage reflects the immutable biological, environmental and genetic variations that shape individual groups. Lineage provides a more specific cultural background. Lineage establishes a Trained Talent, can modify base Health and occasionally grants a Lineage Attribute.

**Magical Bane** - This magical effect applies a Penalty to the target while the Bane is active. A Bane’s duration might be extended through Concentration.

**Magical Boon** - This magical effect provides a Bonus to the target while the Boon is active. A Boon’s duration might be extended through Concentration.

**Magical Warding** or “**Ward**” – A ward grants a Defense Modifier to the target. A Mystic can only have one active Ward. Wards do not require concentration.

**Modifier** – Any adjustment to a rolled Dice Pool total, Challenge Rating difficulty, Defense, Health or Save scores. The maximum Modifier is +5.

**Persistent Condition** or “**Condition**” - An inflicted state of physical, mental or magical harm that persists over time until healed. Most conditions apply Penalties but some may reduce a character’s Dice Pool.

**Save** - All characters have an opportunity to resist or evade certain types of damage or conditions. Save Challenges are Modified by certain Talents.

**Talents** - Talents are how characters become more skilled at completing tasks. Talents are the basis for Dice Pool and Modifiers.

**Threat** - A threat is a self-determined individual or creature that opposes the characters. A Threat's opposition is not always combat focused. Threats are presented as basic stat blocks.

**Threat Modifier** - An adjustment that is applied to individual Threat stat blocks to scale Threats with player skill levels. This Modifier applies to a Threat's Challenge Rating, Health score and provides suggested Talent levels to build more customized Threats.

**Turn** - A Combat Scene is broken into Turns. During each Turn, characters act in order of their Initiative.