# Dice Pool
A Dice Pool is based on training in the Talent used to complete a task.

* Some Talents can be used **Untrained**, granting a base 1d6 Dice Pool.
* Becoming **Trained** in a Talent provides an additional 1d6 to the Dice Pool.
* Becoming **Focused** in a Talent provides an additional 1d6 to the Dice Pool.

Some Talents are Advanced or Trained Only requiring an Archetype, another Talent or some other qualification to learn.

* Trained Only Talents begin with 2d6.
* Focusing a Trained Only Talent grants an additional 1d6.

In all cases, 3d6 is the maximum Dice Pool for any Challenge.
## Dice Pool Modifier

A Dice Pool Modifier, typically referred to as a **Bonus**, is based on the number of dice being rolled. A Bonus is added to rolled totals to complete a task.

Using a Talent Untrained provides no Bonus.

* Magical Boons usually manifest as a Bonus to complete a task.
* Your Combat Modifier is added as a Bonus to your Attack action during combat.

When characters assist each other, they provide a +1 Bonus to whomever is attempting the task. Only one character can assist. Both characters must have access to the same Talent.
## Rolling a Challenge

Roll your Dice Pool, calculate any Bonuses and add the resulting numbers to meet or exceed the established Challenge Rating.
### Critical Success

Rolling above the Challenge Rating by 6 or more, is a critical success. Critical successes apply a +1 Bonus to the character’s next action.
### Critical Failure

Rolling under a Challenge Rating by 6 or more is a critical failure. Critical failures apply a +1 Penalty to the character’s next Challenge Rating.
### Exploding Die

One die in a Dice Pool is designated as an Exploding Die. It helps if this die is a different color or numbered differently (numbers vs pips) than the other dice. When this die rolls a 6, it is re-rolled until it doesn’t roll a 6. All the rolled numbers add to the total for meeting or exceeding a Challenge Rating.