# Combat

## Ranges

Ranges during combat are loosely based on 5-foot increments.

* Close is within arm’s reach, 5-feet. Unarmed combat and touch spells use this range.
* Near is within a held weapon’s reach, 10-feet. Most melee combat takes place within this range.
* Far is essentially 15-feet or more. Essentially line-of-sight. Thrown, or projected weapons and spells use this range.

## Initiative

Combat is organized into Turns for tracking the order of actions.

When combat begins, all players roll 1d6. Players rolling five or better go at the **Top** of the initiative, before the enemy. All others go at the **Bottom** of the initiative, after the opposition. The initiative order remains the same through the entire scene.

Game master-controlled combatants do not roll for initiative.

## Combat Modifier

A Combat Modifier is based on the number of dice rolled for a character’s mode of attack. For Rogues and Warriors this will usually be the Weapon Use Talent. For Mystics it will usually be the Magic Talent.

* This Modifier acts as a Bonus on each attack roll.
* This Modifier also determines Damage inflicted on an enemy after a successful attack.

## Combat Actions

During a Combat Turn, each character takes a single action.

Primary Combat Actions consist of Attack, Cast, Move, Hold or Concentrate.

**Attack** is the same process for either weapons or magic. Roll your Dice Pool, add any Bonus, meet or exceed the Challenge Rating and deal damage equal to your Combat Modifier.

**Casting** is the process of gathering and manipulating Magic to perform an action.

**Moving** allows you to move from one range to the next. E.g. Close to Near, Near to Far or the reverse of those.

**Holding** allows a character to delay any of the above actions till the Bottom of the Initiative sequence.

**Concentration** is a special Mystic action allowing them to maintain a Boon or Bane spell effect. If the Mystic takes damage, their Concentration is broken and the spell effect is lost.

## Damage

When a character successfully strikes an opponent, they do damage equal to the number of dice rolled to attack. Damage is only modified by certain Advanced Combat Talents and the Stealth Surprise Attack ability.

## Defense

All characters begin with zero Defense. Defense applies a Penalty to a character’s Attack action.

This Penalty applies to any character or creature and to all modes of direct attack.

The **Armor Use** and **Shield Use** Talents provide Defense Modifiers while worn or wielded.

**Magical Wards** grant a Defense Modifier while active.

Artifacts enchanted with the Warding property provide a Defense Modifier while worn or used.

Armor and Wards can overlap. The maximum Defense Modifier is +5.