# Health

In the Axiom RPG System **combat is consequential**. Even the smallest foes have chance of ending the adventure. The maximum effective Health score for player characters is 14. Highly skilled or powerful enemies could shave that away 3 points per successful strike. This means a combat scene between powerful opponents could end abruptly after 5 Turns.

All characters begin with Health as listed in their selected **Heritage**.

## Health Modifier

Health is modified by a character’s selected Lineage and Archetype. During play, temporary modifiers to Health and Healing can be applied by Conditions.

## Conditions

There are three basic categories of Conditions.

**Physical** conditions can reduce total Health, limit Health recovered each day or impose Penalties on Challenges. Physical conditions reflect illness, poison, bleeding, broken limbs and exhaustion.

**Mental** conditions affect actions and shake the will of a character to accomplish tasks imposing penalties on Challenges or completely freezing them from taking action. Mental conditions reflect fear, stun, disorientation and confusion.

**Magical** conditions are often inflicted by spells or creatures. Magical conditions reflect things like curses, charms, petrification and forced shape change.

Each of these categories should be used as a guide for what Save is appropriate to resist or even remedy the Condition.

## Saves

Whenever a character is exposed to a persistent, debilitating Condition, they can roll a Save to avoid or remove it. Once a Condition is applied, the Save can be re-attempted based on the description of the Condition. The default time frame during combat is a Turn. Out of combat the time frame is usually connected to treatment or taking a full rest.

The Save Dice Pool is 2d6. The base Challenge Rating for a Save is 7.

Each type of Save receives a Bonus from training in an associated Talent.

| **Category** | **Talent**  | **Archetype** |
| ------------ | ----------- | ------------- |
| Endurance    | Tough       | Warrior +1    |
| Finesse      | Agility     | Rogue +1      |
| Courage      | Strong Will | Mystic +1     |

## Healing

Restoring Health and removing conditions involves rest, medicine or magic.

When a character takes a full rest (8 hours of uninterrupted sleep), they wake up fully healed from normal damage. Persistent conditions may remain in effect.

A character’s injuries can be treated with a healer kit once per day. Character’s recover a number of Health equal to the kit’s effectiveness (+1, +2 or +3) based on the individual that crafted the kit. Healer kits only treat Health loss, not conditions.

When a character receives magical healing, they recover Health equal to the Mystic’s Magic Modifier. A character can be magically healed once during or after a combat scene.

Magical healing can also be used to remove a single Condition instead of restoring Health. 

Magical Conditions, like petrification, often require more specific remedies. At the Game Master’s discretion, they may be cured with Magical Healing.

## Death

When a character reaches zero hit points, they drop all held objects and fall incapacitated.

On their next Turn the character must roll an Endurance Save to stabilize and avoid death.

A stable character is incapacitated until they can be healed in some way by another source.

If a character fails to stabilize, they are dead.