# Magic
Magic is a fantasy setting standard. Consider carefully how magic fits into your setting and how practitioners actually use it.

The mechanics presented here for Magic are as neutral as possible but are more detailed around magic used during combat.

Archetypes and Talents would offer the most effective way to differentiate types of mystics and how they use magic.

These core magic mechanics are not intended to become world altering in any way. More powerful effects could be cooperative, ritualistic or artifact level scrolls and books with one-shot casting. 

_**Whether a spell effect or power is possible is ultimately up to the game master.**_

## No Spell Lists

Like many other rules light systems, we avoided constructing restrictive lists of spells and effects. We trust in the judgement of a game master and the vision of the player to describe their unique spell caster’s flair and style as they use magic.

## Magic Modifier

A Caster’s Magic Modifier is equal to the number of dice rolled to cast a spell. This Modifier is used to determine damage, defense and duration for most magical effects.

## Lesser Arcana

Casters hone their magical skills by practicing Lesser Arcana. These cantrips do not produce effects that inflict or block damage. They are entertaining, may be startling but are intended to teach a caster how to better focus their casting. All casters can use the following abilities once they become Trained in the Magic Talent.

* Focus your senses to detect the presence or use of magic nearby
* Produce a small illusory projection nearby
* Cloak a nearby small object (e.g. a coin or pebble) from vision
* Produce a small light source or faint sound nearby
* Ignite or douse small flames like a candle, lantern or lamp nearby
* Manipulate or move small (e.g. a coin or pebble), unattended objects nearby

Nearby, in this case, means within Close range or while touching the object or target. Each of these cantrips lasts a single Turn. The duration can be extended through Concentration.

## Narrative or Non-Combat Magic

Spell casting outside of combat is more narrative in nature. Just like combat spells, the caster describes the spell and the game master can accept or veto to the spell effect.

## Casting Spells

The player starts by describing their desired spell effect. If the game master agrees that the desired result is possible, the player continues with the action of casting.

During combat, casting a spell is a single action. If a caster takes damage during their Turn, their concentration or casting action will be disrupted and the spell lost.

## Attack Spells

**Targeted** attacks inflict damage equal to the caster’s Magic Modifier to a single target.

**Area** attacks reduce the damage dealt with each 5-foot of expansion.

Casters do not roll to make an Area attack. Individuals within the radius of the spell effect roll a Save Challenge (Finesse) to evade or (Endurance) to shrug off the damage of an Area attack. A successful Save reduces inflicted damage by 1.

* Small Area attacks reduce damage dealt by 1 in a 10-foot radius. (2 damage maximum)
* Large Area attacks reduce damage dealt by 2 to everyone in a 15-foot radius. (1 Damage maximum)

## Warding Spells

Magical Wards improves Defense based on the caster's Magic Modifier for a number of Turns equal to their Magic Modifier.

If the Ward is placed on the caster, once it is depleted, it can be recast the following Turn.

If the Ward is placed on an ally, once it is depleted, the caster must wait a number of Turns equal to their Magic Modifier to recast the protection. Bestowing a Ward on another requires the caster to touch the target.

Casters can only have a single Ward active at a time. Wards do not require Concentration.

## Boon Spells

Boons apply a Bonus to the Dice Pool of the recipient based on the caster’s Magic Modifier.

* This Bonus can apply to Defense against an Attack.
* Boons cannot directly increase Damage or Health.

Concentration can sometimes be used to extend a Boon's effect. Concentration can only be maintained for a number of Turns equal to the caster's Magic Modifier.

## Bane Spells

Banes apply a Penalty to the Challenge Rating based on the caster’s Magic Modifier.

* This Penalty can apply to any action or task.
* Banes cannot directly reduce Damage or Health.

Concentration can sometimes be used to extend a Bane's effect. Concentration can only be maintained for a number of Turns equal to the caster's Magic Modifier.

Targets can be under the effect of both a Boon and a Bane but only one of each. If the effects oppose each other, both are effectively dispelled or the more powerful effect is reduced by the lesser.
