# Advancement
Part of most role-playing games is character advancement. This is usually reflected through some sort of award after completing an adventure or session. Players appreciate seeing their characters learn along the journey and grow to fill a greater role in the story.

In this system, characters advance by improving their existing Talents and learning new ones. Characters earn experience at the conclusion of each session. These points are spent to advance a character’s known Talents, learn new Talents or even explore new Archetypes.

Each character receives three experience points for participating in a game session. Participation involves being present and contributing to the exploration and problem solving as the plot and story unfold. At the game master’s discretion, a bonus experience point can be awarded for notable role playing during the session.

## Spending Experience

Improving or advancing a character involves spending earned experience points.

* New Talent **Focus** - 6XP
* New **Trained** Talent - 9XP
* New Archetype - 12XP (Grants starting Talent and any associated Attributes)

The Talent system presented in these mechanics provide a more gradual approach to character growth. Focused advancement in specific disciplines will offer a very specialized character. Relying on Untrained Talents to round out a specialized character could make for an interesting story.

Spreading experience points to Train many Talents without pushing to Focus would offer a jack-of-all-trades style character that might struggle in very specialized situations. Both paths are valid depending on the desired play-style and duration of the game.

There is no limit to the number of trained Talents a character can possess.

> ## Optional Rule: Fast Advancement
> 
> The default experience awards and costs above are intended to provide gradual advancement for characters. Depending on the ‘power’ level you intend for your game, you could either increase earned experience or lower the cost for advancement.
> 
> For smaller groups or solo play this faster advancement option might make sense to improve player engagement.
> 
> Game masters should evaluate changes to this system carefully to maintain a balance. The Threat list should also be considered. Threats should scale to keep pace with character advancement.